Next up recall that we can pass props down to
child components. For example, if we have a
user and the user's name is Mary we can pass
Mary as a prop and then it will show up
here and the structure it from new components. And
also because we are using TypeScript we can use use
a prop and explicitly type mary mary's name as a
strength and a used Corvair coke is a react hook
for memorizing interactions within a reaction permits. Now next
up when we save our mood options, we want
to also recalled their time stamps. So let's create
a new type for the mood option with the time
timestamp. So let's open our types file and export
another type called mood option with timestamp. And this
will have the mood which will be of type,
mood option type and the time stamp which would just
be a number. Mhm. Next up, in
our home screen we want to use a use state
variable to actually store our mood list. So let's
in our screens let's find the home screen and let's
create a new state variable. So we'll do const
mood list, set mood list. I will do
react dot you state and we'll start with an empty
array. And again we need to tell mood list
what type this is. So we can do it
by passing a mood list, mood option with timestamp
array as the type to use state. So now
when I hover over mood list is going to tell
me what type it is. Next up, we
want to add a use cool back hook to handle
when you select a new mood. So in the
home file in the home screen let's do const handle
select mood and we'll do a react use callback and
then this will have the selected moot which will be
of type mood option, empty dependencies are ready for
now and we'll just to set the mood list and
remember for you state variables you can pass in either
the new variable or we can pass in a function
takes in the current ones. So current list and
we can append are selected mood to the current list
. So we'll return current so will the current.
And we'll also need to add the timestamp to our
mood. So we'll do mood which is the selected
mood and timestamp which will be date dot. Now
I noticed that I actually forgot that we created this
mood option with timestamp and because TypeScript I immediately knew
that I messed up so that saved me some debugging
time. Now let's pass handle select mood into our
mood picker. Mhm. And if we open our
mood picker this is now a property of mood picker
. So we'll create a type for the props so
we'll do type mood picker clubs equals and we'll do
handle select mood. So this takes in the moot
which will be of type mood option type. I
think this was my option and then it returns nothing
. So we use void. Now we'll pass this
type into react fc and we can also be structure
and or select a move from here and now on
our button. So I choose button we can do
on press and we'll do handle select mood and or
pass in selective moot. All right now this is
telling me that argument of type mood option type undefined
is not a sign of water parameter, mood option
type. And this is because this function is saying
, okay, we definitely need a mood option but
notice that selected mood could be undefined. There's another
thing what high school tells me that okay, what
about if someone cause dysfunction but selective mutism defined.
What should I do then? So I'm actually going
to pull this out to a use callback So that's
actually not. So what we can do is here
we'll do, we'll turn this into a proper function
and we'll do if selected mood. So if this
is not undefined only then we'll call it and notice
that TypeScript now knows that this is undefined. This
is not going to be undefined in here because it's
past as if statement and this will work. And
lastly in our home let's also print out the move
list just so we see what's being added. So
let's import text and underneath the moon pick up let's
just do mood list dot map. Hey tim and
let's do text and item it's not mood and let's
also add the time steps that must do item dot
touch them. It's called new state on it because
it's just going to be a number and then we
need to also call to string to string. So
it will be something that we could look at.
And let's add a key to text. So whenever
you map over anything you need to add it a
key. So we'll do item dot timestamp. So
I turned up mood is an object so I need
to do I do item dot mood dot emoji.
There we go. So now when I added you'll
see that I'll get to the emoji and also the
time stamp. So what we'd also like is once
you've selected the mood it should de select the background
. So let's in the mood picker component. Let's
pull this on, press out into a use callback
. So let's do const you just check what I
called it. Sorry, handle select. So let's
do const handle select he calls, react. Use
callback. Mhm. And let's copy this on press
mm select. Mhm. So put that in here
. Yeah. So we'll set the selective mood and
also let's set it to under fine. So we'll
unset the selected state. So that's two set selective
mood and undefined. And we also want to update
dependencies around. All right. So now when we
selected it will de select the state. Could you
please explain the use of used call back here.
Um So I tend to wrap all the functions that
are inside. We are components into use Quebec really
, therefore memorizing the functions so that basically obviously for
every component, every time something changes like internally on
the components or props change, then the whole component
gets run. So if you have a bunch of
things here, a bunch of functions, every single
function that you have gets re initialized. If you're
using arrow functions. So for use callback and use
member and all of those hooks, like the purpose
of them. Is that oh, if none of
these dependencies changed, then don't re initialize it.
So like when you have lots of complicated things,
it will just be um a performance enhancement.